content/pages/combat/combat-basics.md, before:

---
title: "Combat Basics"
date: 2025-09-05T14:57:22-07:00
draft: true
---

# Combat Basics
Combat works in a very straightforward and consistent way. Combat alternates between players and enemies. During the players' turn, they decide which of them will go (that hasn't gone this turn). Then, after their actions have concluded, an enemy controlled by the DM takes its turn. This goes until all characters in the combat have taken their turn. However, sometimes strong enemies may go before the party in certain situations.

## Actions
Each player has a number of Action Points (AP) based on their level, starting at 3. Certain actions, such as martial abilities, spells, movement, etc. will cost a certain number of AP. A player's turn is considered done when they have used all of their AP and have no other actions they can take.

## Movement
A character can move at any time during their turn in units equal to their Speed, whether before, during, or after using all their AP. In addition, characters can use 2 AP to Dash, doubling their movement speed for that turn.

## Attacking
There are three distinct phases of rolling to attack. Each of them require different dice, but the first two are often rolled together.

### Rolling to Hit
In order to attack, you first need to hit them! You roll a `d20 + MOD`, where `MOD` is your stat modifier to hit. Each class and weapon/spell may have different stats. For example, a character with a sword using a STR of 2 would roll `d20 + 2`. You compare this to the target's Evasion. If your roll is equal or higher, you hit! If you roll a "natural 20" (as in, rolling exactly a 20 on the `d20`), you can skip rolling to wound!

### Rolling to Wound
After hitting, you now roll to wound. This is calculated based on the Power of the item or spell being used and the AC of the target. This is rolled with a `d6`, and the check to hit being based on the difference between the two stats.
| Comparison      | Wound Check |
| --------------: | :---------- |
| Power <= 1/2 AC | 6+          |
| Power < AC      | 5+          |
| Power = AC      | 4+          |
| Power > AC      | 3+          |
| Power >= x2 AC  | 2+          |

Since certain modifiers from items or spells can increase or decrease the rolled Wound Check, it's possible to get above a 6 in certain scenarios.

### Rolling for Damage
If you both hit *and* wound, you now roll for damage! The damage done is based on the weapon/spell being used to attack, as well as any applicable modifiers. Be sure to read the ability to confirm what dice to roll and what modifiers to add! If you're taking the damage, be sure to note the total wounds you've taken. If your wounds is greater than or equal to your HP, you're knocked unconscious and have to be stabilized!

Commit message:

Added minor time-saving clarification

content/pages/combat/combat-basics.md, after:

---
title: "Combat Basics"
date: 2025-09-05T14:57:22-07:00
draft: true
---

# Combat Basics
Combat works in a very straightforward and consistent way. Combat alternates between players and enemies. During the players' turn, they decide which of them will go (that hasn't gone this turn). Then, after their actions have concluded, an enemy controlled by the DM takes its turn. This goes until all characters in the combat have taken their turn. However, sometimes strong enemies may go before the party in certain situations.

## Actions
Each player has a number of Action Points (AP) based on their level, starting at 3. Certain actions, such as martial abilities, spells, movement, etc. will cost a certain number of AP. A player's turn is considered done when they have used all of their AP and have no other actions they can take.

## Movement
A character can move at any time during their turn in units equal to their Speed, whether before, during, or after using all their AP. In addition, characters can use 2 AP to Dash, doubling their movement speed for that turn.

## Attacking
There are three distinct phases of rolling to attack. Each of them require different dice, but the first two are often rolled together.

### Rolling to Hit
In order to attack, you first need to hit them! You roll a `d20 + MOD`, where `MOD` is your stat modifier to hit. Each class and weapon/spell may have different stats. For example, a character with a sword using a STR of 2 would roll `d20 + 2`. You compare this to the target's Evasion. If your roll is equal or higher, you hit! If you roll a "natural 20" (as in, rolling exactly a 20 on the `d20`), you can skip rolling to wound!

### Rolling to Wound
After hitting, you now roll to wound. This is calculated based on the Power of the item or spell being used and the AC of the target. This is rolled with a `d6`, and the check to hit being based on the difference between the two stats.
| Comparison      | Wound Check |
| --------------: | :---------- |
| Power <= 1/2 AC | 6+          |
| Power < AC      | 5+          |
| Power = AC      | 4+          |
| Power > AC      | 3+          |
| Power >= x2 AC  | 2+          |

Since certain modifiers from items or spells can increase or decrease the rolled Wound Check, it's possible to get above a 6 in certain scenarios.

To save on time, rolling to hit and to wound can be rolled simultaneously. If you do not hit, you can simply ignore the wound roll.

### Rolling for Damage
If you both hit *and* wound, you now roll for damage! The damage done is based on the weapon/spell being used to attack, as well as any applicable modifiers. Be sure to read the ability to confirm what dice to roll and what modifiers to add! If you're taking the damage, be sure to note the total wounds you've taken. If your wounds is greater than or equal to your HP, you're knocked unconscious and have to be stabilized!
